All right let's get this homework started.
So here I've got the files and if we open up the CAC file you can see that the delimiter is different
.
It's a semi-colon this time.
And if you go to the very bottom of the file you will see that it's quite substantial.
And there's over a million rows there's a million rows million and 50000 rows in total.
So how are we going to go about this.
Well we have our standard process so let's go ahead and follow that.
So we're going to take this and copy it to the prepared folder and rename it to 60.
We're going to open up Excel.
We're going to open our file.
Where is it.
There it is.
And let's look for all files.
There is Biechele 16 next semi-colon delimited.
And so here let's just have a look through it works all.
Looks like you can see there's some empty ones here but that's normal because this customer simply wasn't
a customer in 2014.
Here you can see he only became a customer in 2015.
So obviously he won't have a revenue value in that field.
So his go next is going to be all tax rights we're inside to all of them so the text really click Finish
and let's see what happens.
Might take a few moments since the fall is that big.
All right.
It's getting there you can see the progress bar here.
And we got an error.
What happened.
File not load completely.
That's correct.
OK.
And you'll see here that if you scroll to the bottom of your spreadsheet that there simply wasn't enough
space in Excel.
There's already talked about that Excel can only fit in resume in Excel can only fit one million forty
eight thousand five hundred seventy six rows.
There's going to be the case in even the most recent versions of Excel there is a limited number of
rows.
And so what does that mean.
Well first of all we've got to close this because this can lead to errors we can't continue from here
.
Like often happens right.
We can we hit a roadblock we have to take a step back.
OK.
So let's open up again and hear what we can see is that this fall actually looks like it's already prepared
.
Like here the dates are in the correct format just like we want them year month day.
Then the values the dollar values they are they're all in there got two decimal two digits after the
decimal point and they don't have to all are signs.
And in fact there is no there is even no qualified text qualifiers because they're not required here
because there is there isn't any substantial textfield that might include a semi-colon.
So it is very very tempting at this stage to know I was kind of relying on this as you might be tempted
to take this file and upload it right away as it is into your database and you're free to do that.
You're more than welcome to create your own processes and in fact you're encouraged to create your own
processes for dry cleaning and you know your own habits your own ways of doing things.
But be careful of that because this file actually contains an error where there isn't one semicolon
which is out of place one extra semicolon which causes a row to shift and the template that I have shown
in it helps you identify where that happens because as I remember when we import the files into Excel
and save them again if there was a shift to the right then excel creates this extra empty call for us
.
So that is a red flag for us telling us that there has been a shift.
If you upload this file directly then Sosias won't help you find that error.
And even though you can do that you just have to come up with other ways of looking for anomalies like
that that cause your daughter to shift.
And if you did go ahead and try to upload the file directly you would have noticed that your last column
it doesn't add up.
It doesn't add up to the total value that we have in our challenge so that quality assurance check doesn't
pass and therefore something is wrong.
And in cases like this where every single row is important it is very crucial to make sure that you
check for everything and that's why even though there's so few errors.
Oops.
Even though there's so few errors in this file it is a quite a tough upload quite a tough data cleaning
exercise because every single row counts.
And let's see how we can use our existing template to still upload this fall even though it's that big
.
So I'm going to close this and what are we going to do is we're going to break it up into two and then
we'll glue back together.
So let's make two copies right.
So the original we'll call it because we're in the prepared article that we can basically do all these
things because we always have a reserve copy in our original folder.
So this was going to be part one and this one is going to be part two.
All right so now we're going to break them up.
Let's open this one with notepad plus plus it's really up to how you break up because we're going to
glue them together anyway.
What I'm going to do is I'm going to go to one million so if you press contrl g in Notepad Plus I'll
take you to the role that you want to go to and I'm going to from Saturn from one million onwards.
Actually just so I remember I'm going to leave a one million records in the first one so that means
one million and one stays included because we do have a hetero's.
So if I want to leave 1 million I'm going to take everything out from here from one million to onwards
.
OK.
So I can save that.
That's part one and part two.
I want to go to same place one million.
And so last time we kept everything from 1 million up to 1 million one this summer.
Everything up to here and still keep the headers.
All right.
So that's our new fall.
I'm going to save that and I'm just going to open up the first one so we can visually compare where
they glued together.
That's that's one that goes up to this row.
Three five three.
Well this customer 3 5 3 4 8 4 4 and this one starts at 3 5 3 4 8 4 5.
That's great.
So let's close that.
And now each one of them should be fine open in Excel.
So let's go ahead and do the first one open.
We
all files Part 1.
All right delimited semi-colon
and all of them as text finish.
All right so the files in Excel and well what can we do here.
Everything looks prepared as we needed but we can still go ahead and do our standard process.
So the dates All right we're going to go to data takes two columns delimited no delimiter and date.
What do we want we want.
Well it's already in the right form and so it's already year month day.
So click Finish
and now you can see recognize it as a date.
And it's given its own format so we're going to Format Cells custom y y m m d d.
OK.
Basically if we went back to its original but that's still OK.
You know in case we don't we are not 100 percent sure it was all of it was like we wanted it.
So now this is going to be a bit interesting.
So I'm going to do text to columns right delimited no delimiter general when you when you're just doing
general you can basically go like this.
Finish right away because you're not changing any any of the set a set of sayings.
So there we go.
Now we need to format them as numbers as we need as we normally do Format Cells Number to no decimal
.
Awesome.
Well you'll see as these ones get format as well we don't want that.
We want a general because their dates are.
They're called names.
All right so that looks good.
And now we can just save this.
But this time we're saving it as a CAC file.
And this is what files are going to have the correct delimiter or commas.
In our case.
All right.
So that's done.
Now we want to close that and do the same for the other file.
Part 2 TXI the next semi-colon next.
All of them text.
Finish
this is going to be fossick is smaller.
All right so this one daughter text to columns delimited no delimiter.
And this is going to be date is going to be year month day finish format date no custom should.
So here.
So why MMD.
OK.
Now these ones text the columns finish text columns finish and text the columns finish.
Now if we take all of them format number.
Good.
Now these ones format them back to General.
All right.
So once again that looks good.
So far the fall looks really good right so it doesn't seem that there's lots of errors in it or problems
.
Looks like an ice file.
Ok so CSP.
Yep.
OK good so we've done the Excel part.
Now I want to glue them back together.
Let's take part one and we'll say
let's say back now back together let's say combined.
There you go.
And then we'll obviously need to open combined and open parts to seeis we then we go to the bottom of
combined you'll see 8:04 form right.
And this empty row which means nothing.
So we'll take it up to here and paste it in.
All right.
So we're back at the correct total one million and 50000 rows.
We can close that file.
We're going to save this file and we can close it.
So we did what we were supposed to do in Excel and now we can proceed to SOSIAS.
OK.
We're going to take this combined file We're going to go to upload it.
We're going to create it today's date what is today's date.
0 9 12 of September.
OK.
There it is.
And now I'm going to find my SOSIAS.
We're going to create new projects.
This one we're going to call.
What is it called vehicle service vehicle service.
That's created data flow task.
I'll even give this one a name 12.
Now as usual floodwall soars you've probably done this a couple of times by now and getting good at
it.
All right.
So that's 054 source as a destination.
We might even have a conditional split.
But let's start with the flat passer's so flat all source is our file somewhere in here right so we
combined good takes qualifier delimited columns and this is a moment of truth.
Voila.
This is what we are looking for right somewhere or there somewhere in these million and fifty thousand
records.
There was a shift and that is proof.
Excel helped us find it.
Once again you don't have to do this for the rest of your life.
Do it this way you might have other better ways of finding these Roche's and dealing of errors like
this.
This is just one of the ways that I'm showing you change in this course.
If you get good at this then you know you can experiment and create your own ways as as the time is
right.
But for now we're doing it this way or this is the suggested method and as you can see somewhere there
there is a road shift and we're going to pick it up.
We are going to find it now again.
Just quickly do everything as we properly as we normally do.
All right all good.
OK.
Columns are output good.
So since there is a should shift let's take it out here right.
So we're going to get our.
What is it called.
It's called a conditional split and I think I put it somewhere in transforms last time.
There it is.
So let's take conditional split and we will also need a destination flat file this donation.
All right.
So this goes in here.
Then to set up the conditional split we want to look at columns and we want to say so output name will
be bad records right.
And as usual we want to check for a Len Len of this one.
The main one we're looking for is greater than zero.
Or we might want to also check for Lenn of this one so if there was a shift to the left which is unlikely
in this data set but still let me just check if I'm using the right operator.
OK.
Cool.
So those are bad records.
The rest will be good records.
OK.
So here we want the bad records and let's create a new file where we're going to create it's going to
be a delimited file.
It's going to go into analysis and we're going to create X looted rolls and here we're going to code
in 15 or 9 12.
And what is our
vehicle service.
OK.
So that way we can match the upload using the date text qualifier.
Make sure we check that column's advanced.
Everything is good.
OK.
Mappings.
Perfect.
Then the rest will go in here.
So we're not going to have a second conditional split because we don't have a row that's crucial.
We know that the last call the A column that's crucial not the last column is definitely filled and
we'll make sure that it's populated properly so let's go to all the DBI destination.
And now we are going to create a new place for this data new what are we going to call it.
We're going to call it roll underscore we call service 2015 or 9 12 and give us one or row number and
identity.
All right.
So that looks good mappings and the key here is like when you're doing a new project is to take things
slow and not rush.
So you don't have to redo things again.
All right.
So that looks all good.
Let's go ahead and kick this off.
We should pick up at least one bad record and as we know there's a million rows so this is going to
take a while.
So I'm going to fast forward the video to the end of the upload process here.
OK so the upload is finished took took a while but there we go.
And as you can see there is exactly I'm going to zoom in there is exactly one row that went into bad
records and that is how we caught it and that it was.
That's a good result so far and we're going to end this story here and I'm going to post the rest of
the solution in a separate tutorial which you'll find under this one.
And I look forward to seeing you there.